blog: building localstack with localstack (#22)
localstack/localstack-blog.github.io: content/2024-03-19-building-localstack-with-localstack/index.md

lastmod: 2024-03-19T9:21:02+05:30
images: []
contributors: []
tags: ['showcase']
---

## Introduction

[LocalStack Pro](https://twitter.com/localstack/status/1181338405315256320) was announced in 2019, shipping along with it the LocalStack Web application, revolving around resource browsers, and managing your LocalStack subscription. Over the past few years, we have expanded the scope of the LocalStack Web Application to encompass modern developer toolings & features to make local cloud development a breeze! These included [Stack Insights for detailed AWS API telemetry](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/web-application/stack-insights/), [Cloud Pods browser for storing state snapshots](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/web-application/cloud-pods-browser/), [Chaos Engineering](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/chaos-engineering/) & [IAM Policy Stream](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/security-testing/iam-policy-stream/) dashboards, and much more! While the initial focus was to provide an experience similar to the AWS Management Console, our overall vision has shifted to help developers turbocharge feedback cycles for their inner development loop.

> As our team expanded and we envisioned a broader scope for the LocalStack product, we started dogfooding our software to leverage the same features our customers use LocalStack for! LocalStack’s core cloud emulator allows us to run our own cloud application infrastructure locally and provide an efficient developer experience across the entire software development lifecycle (SDLC). This experience enables us to build our product features in a way that closely matches what our customers are looking for — a comprehensive developer platform that facilitates local multi-cloud development across different providers and services!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As our team expanded and we envisioned a broader scope for the LocalStack product, we started dogfooding our software to leverage the same features our customers use LocalStack for! LocalStack’s core cloud emulator allows us to run our own cloud application - including its infrastructure - locally and provide an efficient developer experience across the entire software development lifecycle (SDLC). This experience enables us to build our product features in a way that closely matches what our customers are looking for — a comprehensive developer platform that facilitates local multi-cloud development across different providers and services!
```

## How do we enable local cloud development?

The LocalStack Web Application comprises two central components — the client application and the related backend. Our whole infrastructure is hosted on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and is deployed using the Cloud Development Kit (CDK). We use various AWS services, such as Lambda, S3, SNS, SQS, CloudFront, DynamoDB, ECS, EC2, Cognito, and Secrets Manager, to name just a few! We use ReactJS & Typescript for our client application while using Flask & Python for the backend.

The complexity of our cloud infrastructure and various managed dependencies mean that there is no straightforward way of testing it! While [AWS’s official recommendations](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prescriptive-guidance/latest/best-practices-cdk-typescript-iac/development-best-practices.html) push us forward to using assertions and snapshot tests, there are inherent limitations and hurdles such as protracted deployment periods and expensive cloud resources.

### Infrastructure deployments & testing
  

> With our core cloud emulator, we can run our entire cloud infrastructure on our local machine! We are using [`cdklocal`](https://github.com/localstack/aws-cdk-local), our open-source wrapper script on the CDK library to run our CDK deployments against LocalStack. Here are the commands that are wrapped inside a Makefile target, that enabled us to bootstrap the local developer environment and deploy our platform stack on developer machines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With our core cloud emulator, we can run our entire cloud infrastructure on the local machine! We are using [`cdklocal`](https://github.com/localstack/aws-cdk-local), our open-source wrapper script around the CDK library, to run our CDK deployments against LocalStack. Here are the commands that are wrapped inside a Makefile target, which enabled us to bootstrap the local developer environment and deploy our platform stack on developer machines.
```

> With our core cloud emulator, we can run our entire cloud infrastructure on the local machine! We are using [`cdklocal`](https://github.com/localstack/aws-cdk-local), our open-source wrapper script around the CDK library, to run our CDK deployments against LocalStack. Here are the commands that are wrapped inside a Makefile target, which enabled us to bootstrap the local developer environment and deploy our platform stack on developer machines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With our core cloud emulator, we can run our entire cloud application - including its infrastructure - on our local machines! We are using [`cdklocal`](https://github.com/localstack/aws-cdk-local), our open-source wrapper script around the CDK library, to run our CDK deployments against LocalStack. Here are the commands we execute to bootstrap the local developer environment and deploy both our frontend and backend stacks on developer machines.
```

```bash

> export AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=000000000000 AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=eu-central-1
> 
> cdklocal bootstrap aws://$$AWS_ACCOUNT_ID/$$AWS_DEFAULT_REGION
> cdklocal deploy --require-approval=never 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd backend
export AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=000000000000 AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=eu-central-1

cdklocal bootstrap aws://$$AWS_ACCOUNT_ID/$$AWS_DEFAULT_REGION
cdklocal deploy --require-approval=never 

cd ../frontend
cdklocal deploy --require-approval=never
```

```

> The key tenet of our local cloud development model is agility — deploying our CDK stack on AWS for development & testing used to take around 15 minutes. With LocalStack, we were able to cut it down to a minute. It enables a quick feedback loop and confidence with “our app runs locally!” while ensuring we are not handcuffed, as we deploy our applications locally dozens of times a day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key tenet of our local cloud development model is agility — deploying our CDK stack on AWS for development & testing used to take around 15 minutes. With LocalStack, we were able to cut it down to a minute. It enables a quick feedback loop and confidence with “our app runs locally!” while ensuring we are not handcuffed, as we deploy our applications dozens of times a day locally.
```

### Development & debugging

Apart from this, we further wished to leverage LocalStack’s debugging tools in our development process. We were able to incorporate [Lambda Hot Reloading](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/lambda-tools/hot-reloading/) & [ECS Code Mounting](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/aws/ecs/#mounting-local-directories-for-ecs-tasks).

With Lambda Hot Reloading, we can continuously apply and test code changes to our locally running Lambda functions, removing the need for any code uploads or function re-deployments. This is especially useful during development, as well as our extensive integration and acceptance test suite, where developers can iterate quickly without the need to wait for code changes to be applied.

> For example, with just a few lines of code, our CDK stack can be enabled to use the Hot Reloading feature mentioned above:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just a few lines of code allow us to enable hot reloading for our lambdas in our CDK stack:
```

> // code

Reviewer: ```python
if enable_hot_reloading():
    lambda_bucket = s3.Bucket.from_bucket_name(scope, f"lambda_name_local", "hot-reload")
    lambda_code = lambda_.Code.from_bucket(bucket=lambda_bucket, key=HOT_RELOADED_CODE_PATH) # path pointing to our root project directory
```

> With just a few of many LocalStack features, we streamline our developer experience and make the setup independent of the cloud: :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With just a few of many LocalStack features, we streamline our developer experience and make the setup independent of the cloud:
```

-   Our infrastructure, containing our lambdas, is deployed in hot-reload mode, which makes LocalStack watch the lambda code for any changes
-   We can trigger these lambdas either during integration tests or by invoking them manually — or through the locally running web application.
-   We can make on-the-fly changes to the function and subsequent executions of the affected lambda will change depending on the adjustments made.

Our team can furthermore benefit from hot-reloading qualities by incorporating LocalStack’s ECS features. We can mount our backend code from the host filesystem into the ECS containers. Similar to Lambda hot reloading it makes development a breeze, enabling faster development loops and increased debuggability where the changes are made without having to build and (re-) deploy any infrastructural changes or even Docker images each time! Here is an example, where we register a task definition, mounting a host path `/host/path` into the container under `/container/path`:

// code

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// TODO code
```

### LocalStack Extensions

> The idea of LocalStack Extensions is to provide a straightforward pathway to start custom service emulators together with LocalStack. As part of our effort to improve the user experience for extensions, we have released a couple of new extensions that we also actively use internally. Our development & testing workflows make use of the Stripe and MailHog extensions - both locally and in CI! We configure LocalStack to start with these extensions automatically by setting the following environment variable:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The idea of LocalStack Extensions is to provide a straightforward way to start custom service emulators together with LocalStack. As part of our effort to improve the user experience for extensions, we have released a couple of new extensions that we also actively use internally. Our development & testing workflows make use of the Stripe and MailHog extensions - both locally and in CI! We configure LocalStack to start with these extensions automatically by setting the following environment variable:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The idea of LocalStack Extensions is to provide a straightforward way to start custom service emulators together with LocalStack. As part of our effort to improve the user experience for extensions, we have released a couple of new extensions that we also actively use internally. Our development & testing workflows make use of the Stripe and MailHog extensions - both locally and in CI! We configure LocalStack to start with these extensions automatically by setting the following environment variable:
```

```bash
EXTENSION_AUTO_INSTALL=localstack-extension-mailhog, localstack-extension-stripe
```

// picture

> The LocalStack Web Application also handles various aspects around account management, such as Purchases, Subscriptions, Billing, and more. The Stripe extension fully allows us to test these flows, using an emulated Stripe service that runs on the local machine. With the Stripe extension, we can now test user flows like purchasing a subscription or updating billing details, and other Stripe API operations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The LocalStack Web Application handles various aspects around account management, such as Purchases, Subscriptions, Billing, and more. The Stripe extension fully allows us to test these flows, using an emulated Stripe service that runs on our machines locally. With the Stripe extension, we can now test user flows like purchasing a subscription or updating billing details, and other Stripe API operations. 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The LocalStack Web Application handles various aspects around account management, such as Purchases, Subscriptions, Billing, and more. The Stripe extension fully allows us to test these flows, using an emulated Stripe service that runs on our machines locally. With the Stripe extension, we can now test user flows like purchasing a subscription or updating billing details, and other Stripe API operations. 
```

Routing the calls to the locally running Stripe emulator is achieved by simply overriding the API endpoint of the Stripe SDK, depending on whether we’re running locally.

> // code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
# in our stripe provider...

stripe_sdk.api_base = “http://localhost:8420” if is_local_development else “https://api.stripe.com”

stripe_sdk.Customer.create(...)
```
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stripe_sdk.api_base = “http://localhost:8420” if is_local_development else “https://api.stripe.com”
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stripe_sdk.Customer.create(...)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

In the case of testing our checkout flow, which means purchasing a subscription, we can make the necessary calls to the Stripe extension, and check whether postconditions are fulfilled.

> // example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
def test_subscribe(self):

    subscription = self.stripe_provider.subscribe(
        plan=TeamPlan,
    )

    assert subscription
    assert subscription.plan.id == TeamPlan.id
    ...
```
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
def test_subscribe(self):
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    subscription = self.stripe_provider.subscribe(
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        plan=TeamPlan,
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    )
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    assert subscription
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
def test_subscribe(self):

    subscription = self.stripe_provider.subscribe(
        plan=TeamPlan,
    )

    assert subscription
    assert subscription.plan.id == TeamPlan.id
    ...
```
```

The Mailhog extension allows us to emulate a local email server for testing user flows that require our platform to send emails, such as account activation, trial expiry notifications, and much more! Using this extension automatically configures LocalStack to use the MailHog SMTP server when sending emails. This means that any mails we send from our application logic, ends up in the mailbox of MailHog, which we can then either view via the UI or fetch via the API that comes with the extension.

> // picture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'd like to show off some complex configuration here, but in reality this is really simple as the mailhog extensions does most of the work.
After instructing LocalStack to start with the mailhog extension, it automatically starts the MailHog service on port 25.
All we have to do is configure our application to connect to the smtp host running locally on port 25.

```python 
smtp_host = "localhost:25"
```
```

## How do we use LocalStack in CI?

> By running our cloud deployment & test suite locally, we were able to demystify critical pain points of the local cloud developer experience, which further helped us improve the parity, performance, and robustness of our core cloud emulator. However, we wanted something similar for our experience while using LocalStack in continuous integration (CI) pipelines! While it is easy just to use LocalStack as a drop-in replacement for AWS, and run tests just like we would do it locally, it is hard to retrieve detailed API telemetry, critical CI analytics, and discover flaky tests that need remediation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By running our cloud deployment & test suite locally, we were able to demystify critical pain points of the local cloud developer experience, which further helped us improve the parity, performance, and robustness of our core cloud emulator. However, we wanted to extend that improved developer experience across continuous integration (CI) pipelines with LocalStack! While it is easy just to use LocalStack as a drop-in replacement for AWS, and run tests just like we would do it locally, it is hard to retrieve detailed API telemetry, critical CI analytics, and discover flaky tests that need remediation.
```

// picture

> This led us to embark on a journey to identify the missing puzzle pieces in the LocalStack CI experience. It led us to build internal homegrown systems which have now spun up as critical LocalStack features that we continue to leverage for our CI pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This led us to embark on a journey to identify the missing puzzle pieces in the LocalStack CI experience. It made us build internal homegrown systems, which have now spun into critical LocalStack features that we continue to leverage for our CI pipelines.
```

### LocalStack GitHub Actions

> We primarily use GitHub Actions to build, deploy and test our web application & platform. Previously, setting up LocalStack on GitHub Actions (or any CI provider in general) was a pain which required pulling the Docker image, installing the `localstack` CLI and other associated tools, before you could start the Docker container! To simplify this process, we created a [`setup-localstack` GitHub Action](https://github.com/localstack/setup-localstack) that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We primarily use GitHub Actions to build, deploy, and test our web application & backend. Previously, setting up LocalStack on GitHub Actions (or any CI provider in general) was a pain, which required pulling the Docker image, installing the `localstack` CLI and other associated tools, before you could start LocalStack! To simplify this process, we created the [`setup-localstack` GitHub Action](https://github.com/localstack/setup-localstack) which:
```

-   Pulls the `latest` - or a specific - version of the LocalStack Docker image
-   Installs the `localstack` CLI alongside setting up configurations & wrapper scripts 

> -   Starts the LocalStack container either with or without the pro capabilities depending on whether a valid CI Key is provided

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-   Starts the LocalStack container either with or without the pro capabilities, depending on whether a valid CI Key is provided
```

> -   Starts the LocalStack container either with or without the pro capabilities, depending on whether a valid CI Key is provided

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Starts the LocalStack container with or without the pro capabilities, depending on whether a valid CI Key is provided
```

> The GitHub Action allowed us to migrate from our existing Docker Compose setup to using the following workflow step:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GitHub Action allows us to spin up LocalStack by using the following workflow step:
```

> // code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
    - name: Start LocalStack
      uses: LocalStack/setup-localstack@v0.1.2
      with:
        image-tag: 'latest'
        use-pro: 'true'
        configuration: EXTRA_CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=*
      env:
        LOCALSTACK_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.LOCALSTACK_API_KEY }}
```
```

> This allows us to spin up LocalStack more easily. and use the same configuration we use locally to execute our test suite in the CI pipeline!

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

### State Snapshots with Cloud Pods

> LocalStack is ephemeral, which means that all the LocalStack state is removed when the container is stopped. However, we wanted to leverage our mechanism that can restore the emulator to a particular state before we run our tests against it. This can be possible with two options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LocalStack is ephemeral, which means that all state is gone when the container is stopped. However, we wanted to leverage our mechanism that can restore the emulator to a particular state before we run our tests against it. This is possible with two options:
```

-   Running an initialization hook or an infrastructure-as-code (IaC) deployment against the emulator.
-   Using a state snapshot that restores a previously-created state and pre-seed it in a test environment.

LocalStack’s persistence mechanism (enabled via `PERSISTENCE=1`) was useful for local development & testing needs. However, we further wanted to leverage state snapshots that can be stored, versioned, and shared across different development & testing environments. Cloud Pods are a mechanism to save LocalStack state onto a remote backend, allowing to restore infrastructure and state of various services when required!

// picture

> Using Cloud Pods, we were able to cut down the total infrastructure deployment time from a minute to less than 10 seconds, both locally and in CI! To create the pod, we have a GitHub action which creates a pod with the latest infrastructure, that’s triggered on each merge to main. We then use said pod in combination with our auto-loading Cloud Pods feature, which allows us to load cloud pods on the start-up of localstack automatically. This is another env var we set like this:  `AUTO_LOAD_POD=localstack-backend-pod`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using Cloud Pods, we were able to cut down the total infrastructure deployment time from a minute to less than 10 seconds, both locally and in our CI pipelines. To maintain an up-to-date version of the cloud pod, we have a GitHub action which creates a pod with the latest infrastructure, that’s triggered on each merge to the `main` branch. We then use that pod in combination with our auto-loading Cloud Pods feature, which allows us to load cloud pods on the start-up of LocalStack automatically. This is another env var we set like this:  `AUTO_LOAD_POD=localstack-backend-pod`.
```

> Using Cloud Pods, we were able to cut down the total infrastructure deployment time from a minute to less than 10 seconds, both locally and in our CI pipelines. To maintain an up-to-date version of the cloud pod, we have a GitHub action which creates a pod with the latest infrastructure, that’s triggered on each merge to the `main` branch. We then use that pod in combination with our auto-loading Cloud Pods feature, which allows us to load cloud pods on the start-up of LocalStack automatically. This is another env var we set like this:  `AUTO_LOAD_POD=localstack-backend-pod`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Cloud Pods, we were able to cut down the total infrastructure deployment time from a minute to less than 10 seconds, both locally and in our CI pipelines. To maintain an up-to-date version of the cloud pod, we utilize a GitHub action in our backend repository, which creates a pod with the latest infrastructure on each merge to our `main` branch, by using cdklocal as described above.
We then use that pod in combination with our auto-loading Cloud Pods feature, which allows us to load cloud pods on the start-up of LocalStack automatically. This is achieved by using the following environment variable.
```

> // code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
AUTO_LOAD_POD=localstack-backend-pod
```
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, when LocalStack starts up, our whole backend will be loaded from the pod, and we can immediately run our integration test suite against it. 
```

### Continuous Integration (CI) Analytics

> With the LocalStack v3 release, we released a private preview of the CI Analytics. CI Analytics allows us to collect, analyze, and visualize critical metrics from our CI pipelines, helping you understand the impact of cloud infrastructure changes on CI builds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the LocalStack v3 release, we released a private preview of our CI Analytics offering. CI Analytics allow us to collect, analyze, and visualize critical metrics from our CI pipelines, helping us understand the impact of cloud infrastructure changes on CI builds.
```

// banner  

This allowed us to get detailed insights and traceability across the CI pipeline run by:

-   Recording all interactions throughout a CI build to get a detailed timeline of API calls using Stack Insights.
-   Select and drill into the infrastructure & application state at a particular point of execution using Cloud Pods.
-   Correlate the timeline of API calls with state changes, to identify hot spots and defect root causes.

This can be enabled by just setting a simple configuration variable in your LocalStack GitHub Action (or any other CI provider in general):

> // code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
LS_CI_PROJECT=name-of-your-project
```
```

With CI Analytics we can drill down into the request & response traces for every AWS API call that we make with our integration test suite. With the help of CI Analytics, we have brought together the critical missing pieces of CI observability & analytics into one single feature which has massively improved our CI troubleshooting and debugging experience.

> Additionally, we can now instrument the important paths and processes, capture the infrastructure state which can be restored locally, and enrich our API telemetry to capture relevant data that help our developers understand flaky CI tests. As an example, we were able to figure out……

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, we can now instrument the important paths and processes, capture the infrastructure state which can be restored locally, and enrich our API telemetry to capture relevant data that help our developers understand flaky CI tests. 
```

// picture

## How do we use LocalStack to enable application previews and E2E testing?

> The next step in the SDLC after local development/testing and running our test suite in CI are acceptance tests through application previews and e2e tests including our web UI. After running our integration tests, both locally and in CI, the next step was to deploy the CDK stack against a staging environment. The staging environment allowed us to run our end-to-end (E2E) integration test suite using the Playwright framework and further use it for acceptance testing, like getting alignment with cross-departmental projects. It allowed us to achieve the final degree of validation before we shipped a new release on production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next step in our SDLC after local development/testing and running our test suite in CI, are acceptance tests through application previews, and e2e tests including our web UI. After running our integration tests, both locally and in CI, the next step was to deploy the CDK stack in our staging environment. The staging environment allowed us to run our end-to-end (E2E) integration test suite, which rely on the Playwright framework, and further use it for acceptance testing, to get alignment across cross-departmental projects. It allowed us to achieve the final degree of validation before we shipped a new release to production.
```

> With the LocalStack v3 release, we released a private preview of Ephemeral Instances. These ephemeral instances allow us to run a short-lived encapsulated deployment of the LocalStack sandbox in the cloud. It allows us to run our E2E tests, preview features in our cloud applications, and collaborate asynchronously within and across the team!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the LocalStack v3 release, we released a private preview of Ephemeral Instances. These ephemeral instances allow us to run a short-lived encapsulated instace of LocalStack in the cloud. It allows us to run our E2E tests, preview features in our cloud application, and collaborate asynchronously within and across the team!
```

// picture

With these ephemeral instances, we can now deploy our entire application (frontend, backend, and infrastructure) on an ephemeral instance, and expose the instance to us internally, which allows us to test our changes with every pull request! This has allowed us to replace our staging environments with ephemeral instances, which we use to continuously run automated tests and check out individual features in parallel manually!

Here is how we configured our GitHub Action pipeline to spin up an ephemeral instance for our application changes with every pull request:

> // code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```python
steps:
  - name: Checkout
    uses: actions/checkout@v4

  - name: Deploy Preview
    uses: LocalStack/setup-localstack/preview@main
    with:
      github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      localstack-api-key: ${{ secrets.LOCALSTACK_API_KEY }}
      preview-cmd: |
        npm install -g aws-cdk-local aws-cdk
        pip install awscli-local[ver1]
        cd backend
        export AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=000000000000 AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=eu-central-1
        cdklocal bootstrap aws://$$AWS_ACCOUNT_ID/$$AWS_DEFAULT_REGION
        cdklocal deploy --require-approval=never 
        cd ../frontend
        cdklocal deploy --require-approval=never

  - name: Finalize PR comment
    uses: LocalStack/setup-localstack/finish@main
    with:
      github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      include-preview: true
```
```

This enables us to:

-   Foster active collaboration with GTM, RevOps, and DevRel teams to demonstrate new features to prospective customers.

> -   Removing the need for staging environments, by giving every engineer an isolated environment , unblocking our team members.
> -   Cut down staging environment costs by tearing down environments automatically, and avoid unnecessary cloud costs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Remove the need for staging environments, by giving every engineer an isolated environment, essentially unblocking ourselves.
-   Cut down costs around our staging environment by tearing down environments automatically, which avoids unnecessary cloud costs.
```

    
With the help of auto-loaded Cloud Pods to pre-seed the infrastructure state, we have achieved a game-changing improvement to our pre-release testing due to faster application spin-ups & resource allocation.

> Though ephemeral environments have been ubiquitous in the frontend space, LocalStack can now spin up your entire application, including any infrastructure relying on AWS services, and ship you a live deployment with every change. This first-class preview-on-pull request support is instrumental in helping LocalStack become a true cloud development platform — not only for developers, but also for QA & management, to fully become the backbone of cloud development throughout the entire SDLC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though application previews have been ubiquitous in the frontend space, LocalStack can now spin up your entire application, including any infrastructure relying on AWS services, and ship you a live deployment with every change. This first-class preview-on-pull request support is instrumental in helping LocalStack become a true cloud development platform — not only for developers, but also for QA & management, to fully become the backbone of cloud development throughout the entire SDLC.
```

---
title: Building LocalStack with LocalStack
description: Building LocalStack with LocalStack
lead: Building LocalStack with LocalStack
date: 2024-03-19T9:21:02+05:30
lastmod: 2024-03-19T9:21:02+05:30
images: []
contributors: ["Lukas Pichler", "Harsh Mishra", "Vlad Gramuzov"]
tags: ['showcase']
---

## Introduction

> [LocalStack Pro](https://twitter.com/localstack/status/1181338405315256320) was announced in 2019, shipping along with it the LocalStack Web application, revolving around resource browsers, and managing your LocalStack subscription. Over the past few years, we have expanded the scope of the LocalStack Web Application to encompass modern developer toolings & features to make local cloud development a breeze! These included [Stack Insights for detailed AWS API telemetry](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/web-application/stack-insights/), [Cloud Pods browser for storing state snapshots](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/web-application/cloud-pods-browser/), [Chaos Engineering](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/chaos-engineering/) & [IAM Policy Stream](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/security-testing/iam-policy-stream/) dashboards, and much more! While the initial focus was to provide an experience similar to the AWS Management Console, our overall vision has shifted to help developers turbocharge feedback cycles for their inner development loop.

Reviewer 3: It feels strange to me that the article starts with a paragraph on the web application, since that's what the title suggests that it's about, and also not what the rest of the article is about.

I would personally reduce the length of the introduction and make it much more focussed on the core topic. Otherwise we risk losing the reader before they really get to the meat of the article.

As our team expanded and we envisioned a broader scope for the LocalStack product, we started dogfooding our software to leverage the same features our customers use LocalStack for! LocalStack’s core cloud emulator allows us to run our own cloud application - including its infrastructure - locally and provide an efficient developer experience across the entire software development lifecycle (SDLC). This experience enables us to build our product features in a way that closely matches what our customers are looking for — a comprehensive developer platform that facilitates local multi-cloud development across different providers and services!

> In this blog, we highlight how we use the LocalStack core cloud emulator and other novel solutions, to build, test, and integrate new features in our LocalStack Web Application. We’ll also detail some of the lessons we have learned, recommendations for success, and how our experience has further helped us improve the base emulation layer!

Reviewer 3: I might even start the article with this, since it precisely says what they can expect to gain from reading it.

## How do we enable local cloud development?

The LocalStack Web Application comprises two central components — the client application and the related backend. Our whole infrastructure is hosted on Amazon Web Services (AWS) and is deployed using the Cloud Development Kit (CDK). We use various AWS services, such as Lambda, S3, SNS, SQS, CloudFront, DynamoDB, ECS, EC2, Cognito, and Secrets Manager, to name just a few. We use ReactJS & Typescript for our client application while using Flask & Python for the backend.

The complexity of our cloud infrastructure and various managed dependencies mean that there is no straightforward way of testing it! While [AWS’s official recommendations](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prescriptive-guidance/latest/best-practices-cdk-typescript-iac/development-best-practices.html) push us forward to using assertions and snapshot tests, there are inherent limitations and hurdles such as protracted deployment periods and expensive cloud resources.

### Infrastructure deployments & testing
  

> With our core cloud emulator, we can run our entire cloud application - including its infrastructure - on our local machines! We are using [`cdklocal`](https://github.com/localstack/aws-cdk-local), our open-source wrapper script around the CDK library, to run our CDK deployments against LocalStack. Here are the commands we execute to bootstrap the local developer environment and deploy both our frontend and backend stacks on developer machines.

Reviewer 3: I personally feel like we might be over-using exclamation marks a bit. But that's just a small style thing.

```bash
cd backend
export AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=000000000000 AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=eu-central-1
cdklocal bootstrap aws://$$AWS_ACCOUNT_ID/$$AWS_DEFAULT_REGION
cdklocal deploy --require-approval=never 
cd ../frontend
cdklocal deploy --require-approval=never
```

> The key tenet of our local cloud development model is agility — deploying our CDK stack on AWS for development & testing used to take around 15 minutes. With LocalStack, we were able to cut it down to a minute. It enables a quick feedback loop and confidence with *our app runs locally!* while ensuring we are not handcuffed, as we deploy our applications dozens of times a day locally.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The key tenet of our local cloud development model is agility — deploying our CDK stack on AWS for development & testing used to take around 15 minutes. With LocalStack, we were able to cut it down less than sixty seconds. It enables a quick feedback loop and confidence with *our app runs locally!* while ensuring we are not handcuffed, as we deploy our applications dozens of times a day locally.
```

### Infrastructure deployments & testing
  
With our core cloud emulator, we can run our entire cloud application - including its infrastructure - on our local machine. We are using [`cdklocal`](https://github.com/localstack/aws-cdk-local), our open-source wrapper script around the CDK library, to run our CDK deployments against LocalStack. Here are the commands we execute to bootstrap the local developer environment and deploy both our frontend and backend stacks on developer machines.

```bash
cd backend
export AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=000000000000 AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=eu-central-1
cdklocal bootstrap aws://$$AWS_ACCOUNT_ID/$$AWS_DEFAULT_REGION
cdklocal deploy --require-approval=never 
cd ../frontend
cdklocal deploy --require-approval=never
```

> 

Reviewer: This set of commands is wrapped up in a single Makefile target, which can then be invoked with one CLI command:

```python
make deploy-local
```

> The key tenet of our local cloud development model is agility — deploying our CDK stack on AWS for development & testing **used to take around 15 minutes**. With LocalStack, we were able to cut it down **less than sixty seconds**. It enables a quick feedback loop and confidence with *our app runs locally!* while ensuring we are not handcuffed, as we deploy our applications dozens of times a day locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key tenet of our local cloud development model is agility — deploying our CDK stack on AWS for development & testing **used to take around 15 minutes**. With LocalStack, we were able to cut it down to **less than sixty seconds**. It enables a quick feedback loop and confidence with *our app runs locally!* while ensuring we are not handcuffed, as we deploy our applications dozens of times a day locally.
```

> We also run our integration test suite against the locally deployed cloud infrastructure. This includes testing E2E flows encompassing Lambdas & SQS queues, Cognito triggers and authentication flows, alongside a DynamoDB-powered persistence layer with asynchronous stream handlers. The local integration suite enables us to further get rid of cloud-based developer environments, and use emulated resources to test our infrastructure locally, with highest level of fidelity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We also run our integration test suite against the locally deployed cloud infrastructure. This includes testing E2E flows encompassing Lambdas & SQS queues, Cognito triggers and authentication flows, alongside a DynamoDB-powered persistence layer with asynchronous stream handlers. The local integration suite enables us to further get rid of cloud-based developer environments, and use emulated resources to test our infrastructure locally, with the highest level of fidelity.
```

stripe_sdk.Customer.create(...)
```

In the case of testing our checkout flow, which means purchasing a subscription, we can make the necessary calls to the Stripe extension, and check whether postconditions are fulfilled.

```python
def test_subscribe(self):
    subscription = self.stripe_provider.subscribe(
        plan=TeamPlan,
    )
    assert subscription
    assert subscription.plan.id == TeamPlan.id
    ...
```

The Mailhog extension allows us to emulate a local email server for testing user flows that require our platform to send emails, such as account activation, trial expiry notifications, and much more. Using this extension automatically configures LocalStack to use the Mailhog SMTP server when sending emails. 

This means that any mails we send from our application logic, ends up in the mailbox of Mailhog, which we can then either view via the UI or fetch via the API that comes with the extension.

After instructing LocalStack to start with the Mailhog extension, it automatically starts the Mailhog service on port 25. Then, we just need to adjust our application to connect to the SMTP host running on port 25 locally.

```python 

> smtp_host = "localhost:25"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
config.smtp_host = "localhost:25"

# further down the stack
s = self._connect_smtp(config.smtp_host, config.smtp_user, config.smtp_pass)
s.sendmail()
```

{{< img-simple src="ephemeral-instances.png" alt="LocalStack Ephemeral Instances">}}

With these ephemeral instances, we can now deploy our entire application (frontend, backend, and infrastructure) on an ephemeral instance, and expose the instance to us internally, which allows us to test our changes with every pull request. This has allowed us to replace our staging environments with ephemeral instances, which we use to continuously run automated tests and check out individual features in parallel manually.

Here is how we configured our GitHub Action pipeline to spin up an ephemeral instance for our application changes with every pull request:

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Checkout
    uses: actions/checkout@v4

  - name: Deploy Preview
    uses: LocalStack/setup-localstack/preview@main
    with:
      github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
      localstack-api-key: ${{ secrets.LOCALSTACK_API_KEY }}
      preview-cmd: |
        npm install -g aws-cdk-local aws-cdk
        pip install awscli-local[ver1]

>         cd backend
>         export AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=000000000000 AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=eu-central-1
>         cdklocal bootstrap aws://$$AWS_ACCOUNT_ID/$$AWS_DEFAULT_REGION
>         cdklocal deploy --require-approval=never 
>         cd ../frontend
>         cdklocal deploy --require-approval=never

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        make deploy-local
```

-   We can make on-the-fly changes to the function and subsequent executions of the affected Lambda will change depending on the adjustments made.

For example, with just a few lines of code, our CDK stack can be enabled to use the Hot Reloading feature mentioned above:

```python
lambda_bucket = s3.Bucket.from_bucket_name(scope, f"lambda_name_local", "hot-reload")
lambda_code = lambda_.Code.from_bucket(bucket=lambda_bucket, key=HOT_RELOADED_CODE_PATH) # path pointing to our root project directory
```

This is especially useful during development, as well as our extensive integration and acceptance test suite, where developers can iterate quickly without the need to wait for code changes to be applied.

Our team can furthermore benefit from hot-reloading qualities by incorporating LocalStack’s ECS features. We can mount our backend code from the host filesystem into the ECS containers. Similar to Lambda hot reloading it makes development a breeze, enabling faster development loops and increased debuggability where the changes are made without having to build and (re-) deploy any infrastructural changes or even Docker images each time. 

> Here is an example, where we register a task definition, mounting a host path `/host/path` into the container under `/container/path`:
> 
> // code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example, where we register a task definition, mounting a host path `/localstack_platform` into the container under `/app/localstack_platform`:

```
```
task_def = ecs.TaskDefinition(
        ...
        volumes=[
                ecs.Volume(name="test-volume", host=ecs.Host(source_path="./localstack_platform"))
        ]
)

platform_container = task_def.add_container(...)

platform_container.add_mount_points(
        ecs.MountPoint(
                container_path="/app/localstack_platform",
                source_volume="test-volume",
                read_only=False,
        ),
)

```

[LocalStack’s core cloud emulator](https://docs.localstack.cloud/getting-started/installation/) allows us to run our own cloud application - including its infrastructure - locally, which provides an efficient developer experience at the start of the entire software development lifecycle (SDLC). This experience enables us to build our product features in a way that closely matches what our customers are looking for — a comprehensive developer platform that facilitates local multi-cloud development across different providers and services.

In this blog, we highlight how we use the LocalStack core cloud emulator and other novel solutions, to build, test, and integrate new features in our LocalStack Web Application. We’ll also detail some of the lessons we have learned, recommendations for success, and how our experience has further helped us improve the base emulation layer.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Application Overview](#application-overview)
```

- [How do we enable local cloud development?](#how-do-we-enable-local-cloud-development)
- [How do we use LocalStack in CI?](#how-do-we-use-localstack-in-ci)
- [How do we use LocalStack to enable application previews and E2E testing?](#how-do-we-use-localstack-to-enable-application-previews-and-e2e-testing)
- [Conclusion](#conclusion)

> ## How do we enable local cloud development?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Application overview
```

> The LocalStack Web Application comprises two central components — the client application and the related backend. Our whole infrastructure is hosted on [Amazon Web Services (AWS)](https://aws.amazon.com/) and is deployed using the [Cloud Development Kit (CDK)](https://aws.amazon.com/cdk/). We use various AWS services, such as [Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/), [S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/), [SNS](https://aws.amazon.com/sns/), [SQS](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/), [CloudFront](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudfront/), [DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/), [ECS](https://aws.amazon.com/ecs/), [EC2](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/), [Cognito](https://aws.amazon.com/cognito/), [Secrets Manager](https://aws.amazon.com/secrets-manager/), to name just a few. We use [ReactJS](https://react.dev/) & Typescript for our client application while using [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/3.0.x/) & Python for the backend.

Reviewer: I feel like this application overview should receive it's own section. 
It feels weird that the first question is "how do we enable local cloud development" and then we're met with an intro to the app.

{{< img-simple src="web-application-architecture.png" alt="LocalStack Web Application architecture">}}

The complexity of our cloud infrastructure and various managed dependencies mean that there is no straightforward way of testing it. While [AWS’s official recommendations](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/prescriptive-guidance/latest/best-practices-cdk-typescript-iac/development-best-practices.html) push us forward to using assertions and snapshot tests, there are inherent limitations and hurdles such as protracted deployment periods and expensive cloud resources.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## How do we enable local cloud development?

```

```python3
task_def = ecs.TaskDefinition(
        ...
        volumes=[
                ecs.Volume(name="test-volume", host=ecs.Host(source_path="./localstack_platform"))
        ]
)

platform_container = task_def.add_container(...)

platform_container.add_mount_points(
        ecs.MountPoint(
                container_path="/app/localstack_platform",
                source_volume="test-volume",
                read_only=False,
        ),
)
```

### LocalStack Extensions

[LocalStack Extensions](https://docs.localstack.cloud/user-guide/extensions/) provide a straightforward way to start custom service emulators together with LocalStack. As part of our effort to improve the user experience for extensions, we have released a couple of new extensions that we also actively use internally. 

Our development & testing workflows make use of the [Stripe](https://pypi.org/project/localstack-extension-stripe/) and [Mailhog](https://pypi.org/project/localstack-extension-Mailhog/) extensions - both locally and in CI. We configure LocalStack to start with these extensions automatically by setting the following environment variable:

```bash

> EXTENSION_AUTO_INSTALL=localstack-extension-mailhog, localstack-extension-stripe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EXTENSION_AUTO_INSTALL=localstack-extension-mailhog,localstack-extension-stripe
```

```

The LocalStack Web Application handles various aspects around account management, such as Purchases, Subscriptions, Billing, and more. The Stripe extension fully allows us to test these flows, using an emulated Stripe service that runs on our machines locally. With the Stripe extension, we can now test user flows like purchasing a subscription or updating billing details, and other Stripe API operations. 

Routing the calls to the locally running Stripe emulator is achieved by simply overriding the API endpoint of the [Stripe SDK](https://docs.stripe.com/libraries), depending on whether we’re running locally.

```python
stripe_sdk.api_base = “http://localhost:8420” if is_local_development else “https://api.stripe.com”
stripe_sdk.Customer.create(...)
```

> In the case of testing our checkout flow, which means purchasing a subscription, we can make the necessary calls to the Stripe extension, and check whether postconditions are fulfilled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of testing our checkout flow, which means purchasing a subscription, calls to Stripe are automatically routed to the locally running extension, and we can afterwards check whether postconditions are fulfilled - all fully locally.
```

```python
def test_subscribe(self):
    subscription = self.stripe_provider.subscribe(
        plan=TeamPlan,
    )
    assert subscription
    assert subscription.plan.id == TeamPlan.id
    ...
```

> The Mailhog extension allows us to emulate a local email server for testing user flows that require our platform to send emails, such as account activation, trial expiry notifications, and much more. Using this extension automatically configures LocalStack to use the Mailhog SMTP server when sending emails. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Mailhog extension allows us to emulate a local email server for testing user flows that require our platform to send emails, such as account activation, trial expiry notifications, and much more. Using this extension automatically configures LocalStack to use the Mailhog SMTP server when sending emails over SES. 
```

> This means that any mails we send from our application logic, ends up in the mailbox of Mailhog, which we can then either view via the UI or fetch via the API that comes with the extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that any mails we send from our application logic ends up in the mailbox of Mailhog, which we can then either view via the UI or fetch via the API that comes with the extension.
```

After instructing LocalStack to start with the Mailhog extension, it automatically starts the Mailhog service on port 25. Then, we just need to adjust our application to connect to the SMTP host running on port 25 locally.

```python 
config.smtp_host = "localhost:25"
...
s = self._connect_smtp(config.smtp_host, config.smtp_user, config.smtp_pass)
s.sendmail()
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On below image you can see the UI of the mailhog extension, displaying the email which is sent when signing up for an account.
```

---
title: Building LocalStack with LocalStack
description: We are increasingly building various parts of the LocalStack Web Application using our core cloud emulator, leveraging various features for local multi-cloud development. In this blog, we share how we are dogfooding our own software to promote faster feature development and reduce inefficient testing loops.
lead: We are increasingly building various parts of the LocalStack Web Application using our core cloud emulator, leveraging various features for local multi-cloud development. In this blog, we share how we are dogfooding our own software to promote faster feature development and reduce inefficient testing loops.
date: 2024-03-19T9:21:02+05:30
lastmod: 2024-03-19T9:21:02+05:30
images: []
show_cta_1: true

> contributors: ["Lukas Pichler", "Harsh Mishra", "Vlad Gramuzov"]

Author: I think you deserve to be here, given all your inputs :)

We use [Dynaconf](https://www.dynaconf.com/) for configuration management, enabling us to set different settings for each environment. The following example shows the default AWS settings for production:

```bash
[default]
aws.endpoint_url = ""
```

For local development, we point `boto3` to LocalStack by setting the AWS endpoint URL to LocalStack's address:

```bash
[development]
aws.endpoint_url = "http://localhost.localstack.cloud:4566"
```

These variables are used when creating the boto3 client as follows:

```
def get_aws_config(self) -> AWSClientConfig:
    endpoint_url = None

    if settings.get("aws.endpoint_url"):
        endpoint_url = settings.get("aws.endpoint_url")

    return AWSClientConfig(
        endpoint_url=endpoint_url,
    )

class LambdaClient(AWSClient):
    def __init__(self, config: AWSClientConfig):
        config = get_aws_config()
        self.client = boto3.client("lambda", config.dict())
```

> This setup routes all boto3 calls in our backend to LocalStack instead of real AWS services when developing locally.

Reviewer: Considering that this is explicitly mentioned in the AWS docs, I wonder what our own stance is on this topic?
Do we recommend people to set `AWS_ENDPOINT_URL` to localhost.localstack.cloud when working with localstack?

Then we can probably also rewrite this part of the blog post to drive that message home.
Ideally this blog post does not reflect bad practices that we ourselves might have picked up.

> This setup routes all boto3 calls in our backend to LocalStack instead of real AWS services when developing locally.

Reviewer 2: Great point @lukqw ! I guess it wouldn't harm showing both, and again, this comment is more of a nitpick and shouldn't block the merge. 👍  Maybe @HarshCasper @tinyg210 can chime in as well and share their thoughts. 

I guess one interesting question would be - would we be able to adjust the logic in platform to switch the target endpoint in `get_aws_config(..)` solely via `AWS_ENDPOINT_URL`, rather than `Dynaconf`? (presumably yes, but could be worth a shot at some point.. :) /cc @pandomic )

In general, we try to advocate (also in customer demos) for as little "if local then ..." switches as possible, so ideally "bring your production code, we'll deploy it on LocalStack as-is". So, that could speak for increasing adoption of `AWS_ENDPOINT_URL` (or specifying `endpoint_url = ...` in a profile in `~/.aws/config`) that we could increasingly also adopt in our docs and in blog posts.

> This setup routes all boto3 calls in our backend to LocalStack instead of real AWS services when developing locally.

Author: I would tend to agree with @lukqw here and would suggest to show what we are using right now. Maybe in the future when we make the changes and do a follow-up post, we can mention it over there :)

{{< img-simple src="localstack-web-app-running-locally.png" alt="LocalStack Web App running locally">}}

### Testing

With the ability to deploy our application locally we are able to develop and test various flows manually, for example if one can sign up, which involves Cognito and a few Lambdas.

Deploying the application locally further allows us to run our integration test suite against it. This includes testing end-to-end flows that involve Lambdas and SQS queues, Cognito triggers and authentication flows, and a DynamoDB-powered persistence layer with asynchronous stream handlers. The local integration suite enables us to eliminate cloud-based developer environments and use emulated resources to test our infrastructure locally with the highest level of fidelity.

For example, in the signup process, our application logic performs the following steps:

* Create a new user in the database.
* Create a user in Cognito.
* Send an email to the user to confirm their account creation.

With our infrastructure deployed, which we set up before running our test suite, we use pytest to implement tests that assert the behaviors described above.

```python

> def test_signup_user(self, smtp_server):

Reviewer 4: Should we mention the Mailhog extension here (it is mentioned below but here `smtp_server` may leave some questions)?

Also one minor detail, depending on how accurate the code should be: triggers would emit async events, meaning our actual assertion strategy needs to implement some waiting/polling on the resources

Reviewer: I felt like not elaborating on mailhog, the `smtp_server` fixture, and the actual assertion strategy, as it's besides the point of showing off how easy it is to write tests against localstack.

    
Though application previews have been ubiquitous in the frontend space, LocalStack can now spin up your entire application, including any infrastructure relying on AWS services, and ship you a live deployment with every change. This first-class preview-on-pull request support is instrumental in helping LocalStack become a true cloud development platform — not only for developers, but also for QA & management, to fully become the backbone of cloud development throughout the entire SDLC.

## Conclusion

That’s the long and short of how we are building LocalStack with LocalStack. LocalStack has enabled rapid design and development of sophisticated solutions by reducing the number of test and UAT environments while improving the quality and lead time. The best way we can improve our product is to iteratively adopt it, and ensure we can leverage the same features as our customers do and continue to nail down the developer experience. Over many months, we have continued to ship improvements to enable teams, like ours, to scale and mitigate common bottlenecks while developing on the cloud.

> As we continue our work in fleshing out the LocalStack experience, we aim to further support enterprise compliance & insights, with features like Chaos engineering, Productivity metrics, Cost optimizations, and more. This will allow us to expand from our initial focus on the inner dev loop to an outer dev loop experience, to accelerate your cloud journey and to put developers back in charge. Building a cloud emulator is hard, and this sets us up towards solving larger problems at hand — state management, SDLC, collaboration, and more.

Reviewer 2: Small suggestion, to better make the causal link between the two parts of the sentence:
```suggestion
As we continue our work in fleshing out the LocalStack experience, we aim to further support enterprise compliance & insights, with features like Chaos engineering, Productivity metrics, Cost optimizations, and more. This will allow us to expand from our initial focus on the inner dev loop to an outer dev loop experience, to accelerate your cloud journey and to put developers back in charge. Building a high-fidelity cloud emulator has been a tough undertaking, but this strong foundation now sets us up towards solving larger problems at hand — state management, SDLC, collaboration, and more.
```

### Infrastructure deployment

With the configuration described earlier, we connected the Python backend to local resources on LocalStack, such as DynamoDB. However, our infrastructure includes serverless services like Lambdas, ECS, and EC2. The next logical step was to deploy the entire infrastructure onto LocalStack to develop and test the whole application locally.
  
We are using [`cdklocal`](https://github.com/localstack/aws-cdk-local), our open-source wrapper script around the CDK library, to deploy our CDK stacks against LocalStack - our core cloud emulator. To achieve this, we first bootstrap the environment, and deploy the backend stack afterwards.

```bash
cd backend
export AWS_ACCOUNT_ID=000000000000 AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=eu-central-1
cdklocal bootstrap aws://$AWS_ACCOUNT_ID/$AWS_DEFAULT_REGION
cdklocal deploy --require-approval=never 
```

This set of commands is wrapped up in a single Makefile target, which can then be invoked with one CLI command:

```bash 
make deploy-local
```

To deploy the frontend to LocalStack as well, we have a similar sequence of commands:
```bash
cd ../frontend
cdklocal deploy --require-approval=never
```

> The key tenet of our local cloud development model is agility — deploying our CDK stack on AWS for development & testing **used to take around 15 minutes**. With LocalStack, we were able to cut it down to **less than sixty seconds**. It enables a quick feedback loop and confidence with *our app runs locally!* while ensuring we are not handcuffed, as we deploy our applications dozens of times a day locally.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The key tenet of our local cloud development model is agility — deploying our CDK stack on AWS for development & testing **used to take around 15 minutes**. With LocalStack, we were able to cut it down to **less than sixty seconds**. It enables a quick feedback loop and confidence that *our app runs locally!* while ensuring we are not handcuffed, as we deploy our applications dozens of times a day locally.
```
Nitpick - but I feel this flows better?

Author: Thank You! Fixed with https://github.com/localstack/localstack-blog.github.io/pull/22/commits/d2a812c5a07864efe1b04ea0582f933784a6759b
